README.md, before:

# USB-Utility

A user space application developed in python to deal with USB related issues on Ubuntu/Debian based distributions.

# Why create this project?

The reason why I created this project is to solve specific USB related issues across the Ubuntu/Debian Linux distributions easily for users from technical to none technical backgrounds in hope it become useful and solves USB related issues easily for everyone.

# Features

1. Fixing the issue of USB 3.0 not working (By adding the command/parameter 'iommu=soft' to the grub file located in '/etc/default/grub' and somehow disable the iommu in the bios (disabling iommu in bios may require the user manually doing it before executing/running the utility program). Also once the utility has executed and added the string data on the end of the file in the grub section 'GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX', the utility program will need to execute the command 'update-grub' to update the latest grub file configurations for the fix to take affect on system restart/booting into the ubuntu based distribution.

2. Consider creating a simple GUI option within python for the user to interact with the program. User interface will contain easy to use button selection to automatically apply the USB related fixes aswell as additional options/features
within the program.

3. 'grub' file backup will be added to allow the user to backup their orginal/working version of the grub file. This will provide confidence to the user before using/applying any changes to the Linux 'grub' boot configuration file
    using the project/program.

4. 'grub' file restore will be added to allow the user to automatically restore the previous/selected 'grub' within the system. This feature relies on the fact that the user has produced a 'grub' backup file before hand and the 
   'grub file backup' feature is implemented within the project.
   
5. 'grub' file deletion will be added to allow the user to delete the backup date of the 'grub' file's with the purpose of allowing the user to clear the system when required.

# How to

1. To fix 'USB-3.0' related issues on Ubuntu/Debian based Linux distributions, simply download the python program 'USB-3.0-Fix.py' within the 'python-modules' folder, execute the python program on the system using the command 
'python USB-3.0-Fix.py' within the terminal window, restart your system and enter the bios menu to disable the 'iommu' feature within the bios settings, save the bios settings, restart the system and boot into your Linux distribution and test to see if the 'USB-3.0' ports work correctly as expected. Do note that when you boot into your system after the above changes and your mouse/keyboard is not working,this is due to disabling the 'iommu' within the bios and re-enabling this feature will fix this problem. Refer to the testing section for additional information.

2. To use the 'grub' backup feature within the project, simply download the python program 'grub-backup.py' within the 'python-modules' folder, execute the python program on
   the system using the command 'python grub-backup.py', enter the directory/folder name you wish to store your 'grub' file in and then your done. Do note that when the 
   directory/folder name already exist, an error message will display asking you to enter another unique directory/folder name. Further information on how the python program/module
   works can be found within the "grub-backup.py' file.
   

# Python Version used for development/testing

Python Version: Python 2.7.15rc1 - Default python version which comes with 'Linux Mint 19 Tara'
   

# Backup Directory Location

Ubuntu/Debian based distribution: "/etc/default/grub_backup" - Default backup directory of the users 'grub' file's ('grub_backup' folder gets produced by the 'grub-backup.py' python                                  module/program)

# Testing

  // NEEDS TO BE FILLED

# Disclaimer

This project has only being tested on my system and the solutions applied within this project solved my specific issues. Use at your own risk and always create BACKUPS before modifying any system related files in case system related issue occurs in which then you can recover easily without losing valuable data/information.

# Author / Credits

Mr. Ashleigh Day - (Software Engineer).

Commit message:

Updated the README file with additional information about the new backup deletion feature aswell as modifying existing README information.

README.md, after:

# USB-Utility

A user space application developed in python to deal with USB related issues on Ubuntu/Debian based distributions.

# Why create this project?

The reason why I created this project is to solve specific USB related issues across the Ubuntu/Debian Linux distributions easily for users from technical to none technical backgrounds in hope it become useful and solves USB related issues easily for everyone.

# Features

1. Fixing the issue of USB 3.0 not working (By adding the command/parameter 'iommu=soft' to the grub file located in '/etc/default/grub' and somehow disable the iommu in the bios (disabling iommu in bios may require the user manually doing it before executing/running the utility program). Also once the utility has executed and added the string data on the end of the file in the grub section 'GRUB_CMDLINE_LINUX', the utility program will need to execute the command 'update-grub' to update the latest grub file configurations for the fix to take affect on system restart/booting into the ubuntu based distribution. (Done)

2. Consider creating a simple GUI option within python for the user to interact with the program. User interface will contain easy to use button selection to automatically apply the USB related fixes aswell as additional options/features within the program. Either use a GUI tool like glade for an interactive GUI option or use a interactive terminal based program using 'Ncurses'. 

3. 'grub' file backup will be added to allow the user to backup their orginal/working version of the grub file. This will provide confidence to the user before using/applying any changes to the Linux 'grub' boot configuration file using the project/program. (Done)

4. 'grub' file restore will be added to allow the user to automatically restore the previous/selected 'grub' within the system. This feature relies on the fact that the user has produced a 'grub' backup file before hand and the 'grub file backup' feature is implemented within the project.
   
5. 'grub' file deletion will be added to allow the user to delete the backup date of the 'grub' file's with the purpose of allowing the user to clear the system when required. (Done)

# How to

1. To fix 'USB-3.0' related issues on Ubuntu/Debian based Linux distributions, simply download the python program 'USB-3.0-Fix.py' within the 'python-modules' folder, execute the python program on the system using the command 
'python USB-3.0-Fix.py' within the terminal window, restart your system and enter the bios menu to disable the 'iommu' feature within the bios settings, save the bios settings, restart the system and boot into your Linux distribution and test to see if the 'USB-3.0' ports work correctly as expected. Do note that when you boot into your system after the above changes and your mouse/keyboard is not working,this is due to disabling the 'iommu' within the bios and re-enabling this feature will fix this problem. Refer to the testing section for additional information.

3. To use the 'grub' backup feature within the project, simply download the python program 'grub-backup.py' within the 'python-modules' folder, execute the python program on
   the system using the command 'python grub-backup.py', enter the directory/folder name you wish to store your 'grub' file in and then your done. Do note that when the 
   directory/folder name already exist, an error message will display asking you to enter another unique directory/folder name. Further information on how the python program/module
   works can be found within the "grub-backup.py' file.

5. To use the 'grub' automatic deletion/cleaning feature, simply download the python program 'grub_backup_deletion.py'  within the 'python-modules' folder, then execute the python program on
   the systems terminal window using the command 'python grub_backup_deletion.py' and then follow the terminal window prompts by inputting 'yes' or 'no'. Note that the module has additional checks which may prevent the module to run, an example of this could be '[ERROR] No backup files/directory's exist 'grub_backup' which means the 'grub_backup' folder is missing from the Linux filesystem directory '/etc/default' and requires creation manually or using the 'grub-backup.py' module. Addtional information about the module can be found within the 'grub_backup_deletion.py' file which is located within the 'python-modules' folder.
   

# Python Version used for development/testing

Python Version: Python 2.7.15rc1 - Default python version which comes with 'Linux Mint 19 Tara'
   

# Backup Directory Location

Ubuntu/Debian based distribution: "/etc/default/grub_backup" - Default backup directory of the users 'grub' file's ('grub_backup' folder gets produced by the 'grub-backup.py' python                                  module/program)

# Testing

  // NEEDS TO BE FILLED

# Disclaimer

This project has only being tested on my system and the solutions applied within this project solved my specific issues. Use at your own risk and always create BACKUPS before modifying any system related files in case system related issue occurs in which then you can recover easily without losing valuable data/information.

# Author / Credits

Mr. Ashleigh Day - (Software Engineer).
